README.md, before:

# docker-stableperl

Marc Lehmann's stableperl

# structure

Image dependency layers:

| runtime |
	|
| runtime-builder |
	|
| stableperl |
	|
| perlbrew |
	|
| deb9-base |


# Steps

## deb9-base

image name: deb9-base:1.0-170917

boot into deb9 and run the mkimage script:

	cd /usr/share/docker-ce/contrib
	sudo ./mkimage.sh -t deb9-base:1.0-170917 debootstrap stretch

## perlbrew

Provide perlbrew and build essentials. Though results in bigger image, must use system provided perlbrew,
otherwise cannot start perlbrew in runtime (missing modules).

## stableperl

Compile the stableperl tarball here.
To provide bare stableperl without addidtional modules.

## runtime-builder

Use stableperl to build require cpan modules.
Don't care the image size.

## runtime

Copy the perl binaries from **runtime-builder**


## Config


## Usage

See sample-app

## Reference

### Build on VM


apt-get install -y libev4 libev-dev libffi6 libffi-dev
apt-get install -y libzmq5 libzmq3-dev

export PERLBREW_ROOT=/usr/local/perlbrew
perl --version
curl -L https://install.perlbrew.pl | bash
source /usr/local/perlbrew/etc/bashrc
perlbrew install -j 4 --64int  /home/mike/Downloads/stableperl-5.22.0-1.001.tar.gz

perlbrew use 5.22.0-1.001

cpanm --installdeps . -M https://cpan.metacpan.org

Commit message:

switch to Docker provided ubuntu image

README.md, after:

# docker-stableperl

Marc Lehmann's stableperl

# structure

Image dependency layers:

| runtime |
	|
| runtime-builder |
	|
| stableperl |
	|
| perlbrew |
	|
| ubuntu  |


# Steps

## ubuntu

We just use Docker privided image of Ubuntu 18.04 LTS.

	docker pull ubuntu:bionic

## perlbrew

Provide perlbrew and build essentials. Though results in bigger image, must use system provided perlbrew,
otherwise cannot start perlbrew in runtime (missing modules).

It is the first step to creating the builder image.

## stableperl

Compile the stableperl tarball here.
To provide bare stableperl without addidtional modules.

## runtime-builder

Use stableperl to build require cpan modules.
Don't care the image size.

## runtime

Copy the perl binaries from **runtime-builder**


## Config


## Usage

See sample-app

## Reference

### Build on VM


apt-get install -y libev4 libev-dev libffi6 libffi-dev
apt-get install -y libzmq5 libzmq3-dev

export PERLBREW_ROOT=/usr/local/perlbrew
perl --version
curl -L https://install.perlbrew.pl | bash
source /usr/local/perlbrew/etc/bashrc
perlbrew install -j 4 --64int  /home/mike/Downloads/stableperl-5.22.0-1.001.tar.gz

perlbrew use 5.22.0-1.001

cpanm --installdeps . -M https://cpan.metacpan.org
